docs: add Gatsby Cloud documentation (#22708)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/deploying-to-gatsby-cloud.md

---
title: Deploying to Gatsby Cloud
---

This guide will walk you through building and deploying your Gatsby site on [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/cloud).

## Why Use Gatsby Cloud

Gatsby Cloud is a platform of stable, trusted tools launched by the team behind Gatsby.js in late 2019 that enables web creators to build better websites. It offers unique features that remove friction in your team's workflow including:

- [**Autoprovisioning**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/autoprovisioning) that empowers new users to create projects in minutes with a Content Management System (CMS), sample content, and connected Gatsby starter.
- [**Real-time Preview**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/viewing-preview/) to simplify content creation and collaboration. Preview offers a private playground for developers, designers, marketers, and content creators by providing a shareable temporary URL for viewing changes immediately and in context. With instant updates triggered by a CMS or webhooks, it’s a shareable, hot-reloading preview.

> - **Numerous CMS Integrations** many of which are automatic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Numerous CMS Integrations**, many of which are automatic
```

Reviewer 2: missing a dot here?

```diff
- - **Numerous CMS Integrations**, many of which are automatic
+ - **Numerous CMS Integrations**, many of which are automatic.
```

---
title: Deploying to Gatsby Cloud
---

This guide will walk you through deploying your Gatsby site on [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/cloud).

## Why Use Gatsby Cloud

> Gatsby Cloud is a commercial platform of stable, trusted tools launched by the team behind Gatsby.js in late 2019 that enables web creators to build better websites. It offers unique features that remove friction in your team's workflow including: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatsby Cloud is a platform of stable, trusted tools launched by the team behind Gatsby.js in late 2019 that enables web creators to build better websites. It offers unique features that remove friction in your team's workflow including: 
```

- **Cloud Quickstart** that empowers new and non-technical users to create projects in minutes with a Content Management System (CMS), sample content, and connected Gatsby starter.
- **Real-time Preview** to simplify content creation and collaboration. Preview offers a private playground for developers, designers, marketers, and content creators by providing a shareable temporary URL for viewing changes immediately and in context. With instant updates triggered by a CMS or webhooks, it’s basically a shareable, hot-reloading preview.

> - **CMS Integrations** that are unrivaled in the market

Author: Makes sense, I incorporated this suggestion in my commit: _Revise CMS integrations bullet_

- Contentful
- Cosmic JS
- Dato CMS
- Sanity.io

If you want to work with a CMS without automatic integration support you still can. There are specific documents available for the below integration points:
- Contentstack
- Drupal
- Strapi

In addition, Gatsby Cloud offers a POST endpoint for manually integrating with CMSs that support webhooks.

### Hosting Integrations
Gatsby Cloud offers automatic integration with the following hosting providers:
 - Netlify
 - Amazon S3
 - Firebase
 - Google Cloud Storage
 - Fastly

Please refer to the [Gatsby Cloud Docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/) for full details on available integrations.

## Setup a new Gatsby site from scratch
1. Head over to [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/get-started/) and sign-up/sign-in with your Github account if you haven't already. 
2. Navigate to the [get started](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/get-started/) page or click the **Create new site** button on your [Dashboard](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/sites).
3. Choose the **I don't have a Gatsby site yet** option.
4. On *Tab 1* choose from the Starter options and click **Next**.

> 5. On *Tab 2*, enter a name for your new project and click **Next**. This will be the name of the project repo added to your Github account. You will need to set your [github permissions](https://github.com/settings/installations) to enable "All Repositories" access to allow Gatsby Cloud to create a new repo.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. On *Tab 2*, enter a name for your new project and click **Next**. This will be the name of the project repo added to your GitHub account. Set your [GitHub permissions](https://github.com/settings/installations) to enable "All Repositories" access in order to allow Gatsby Cloud to create a new repo.  
```

> 6. On *Tab 3*, click **Connect** to authorize with your chosen CMS provider. At this point Gatsby Cloud will prompt you to authorize with and login to your chosen CMS provider and then you will be returned to the setup flow. The [Gatsby Cloud Docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/) provides specific tutorials for each CMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On *Tab 3*, click **Connect** to authorize with your chosen CMS provider. Gatsby Cloud will prompt you to authenticate with that CMS provider and then return you to the setup flow. The [Gatsby Cloud Docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/) provide specific tutorials for each CMS.
```

> 7. Once you have successfully configured your CMS, click **Start my site**. Gatsby Cloud will finish up provisioning your starter project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Once you successfully configure your CMS, click **Start my site**, prompting Gatsby Cloud to provision your starter project.
```

> 8. On *Tab 4* click **Finish**. You will be brought to the dashboard page for your site and under the *Production* tab you will see that your build has been triggered and is underway. Once the build has finished, a URL will appear for you to view the live build of your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. On *Tab 4* click **Finish**. On your site's dashboard page, under the *Production* tab, you'll see an in-progress build. Once the build has finished, a URL will appear for you to view the live build of your site.
```

> 10. Under the *Preview* tab you can find your site's preview URL. This preview URL will allow your team to make changes to your CMS and automatically view updates to your site in real time without having to rebuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Under the *Preview* tab you can find your site's preview URL. This preview URL will allow your team to make changes to your CMS and automatically view updates to your site in real-time without having to rebuild.
```

11. If a build fails, you can click **View Details** to view the warning, errors, and raw logs for the build.

## Setup an existing Gatsby site

> 1. Head over to [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/get-started/) and sign-up/sign-in with your Github account if you haven't already. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Head over to [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/get-started/) and sign-up/sign-in with your GitHub account if you haven't already. 
```

> 2. Navigate to the [get started](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/get-started/) page or click the **Create new site** button on your [Dashboard](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/sites).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Create new site** button on your [Dashboard](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/sites).
```

3. Choose the **I already have a Gatsby site** option.

> 4. On *Tab 1*, select your repo containing your Gatsby site from the list of options. If you don't see your repo in the list, you can adjust your repository access by clicking the **Connect a new GitHub Organization** link or configuring your Gatsby Cloud app installation in your [Github settings](https://github.com/settings/installations). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. On *Tab 1*, select your repo containing your Gatsby site from the list of options. If you don't see your repo in the list, you can adjust your repository access by clicking the **Connect a new GitHub Organization** link or configuring the Gatsby Cloud app installation in your [GitHub settings](https://github.com/settings/installations). 
```
